README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="CinephageLogo.png" alt="Cinephage" width="200">
</p>

<h1 align="center">Cinephage</h1>

<p align="center">
  <strong>Self-hosted media management. Everything in one app.</strong>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPLv3-blue.svg" alt="License: GPL v3"></a>
  <a href="https://nodejs.org"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/node-%3E%3D20-brightgreen" alt="Node.js Version"></a>
  <a href="#"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/status-Alpha%20·%20Active%20Development-orange" alt="Status: Alpha - Active Development"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/MoldyTaint/Cinephage/issues"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/MoldyTaint/Cinephage" alt="GitHub Issues"></a>
  <a href="https://discord.gg/scGCBTSWEt"><img src="https://img.shields.io/discord/1449917989561303165?color=5865F2&logo=discord&logoColor=white&label=Discord" alt="Discord"></a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  Search torrents, grab downloads, organize your library, fetch subtitles — all in one app.<br>
  Think Radarr + Sonarr + Prowlarr + Bazarr, but built from scratch as a single application.
</p>

> [!CAUTION]
> **This project is under active development.** Features may be incomplete, APIs may change, and bugs are expected. This is a passion project by a solo developer — your patience and feedback are appreciated. Please report issues on GitHub, but understand that breaking changes may occur between updates.

<p align="center">
  <img src="docs/images/dashboard.png" alt="Cinephage Dashboard" width="800">
</p>

---

## Why Cinephage?

Cinephage consolidates four separate applications into one streamlined experience. Instead of juggling Radarr, Sonarr, Prowlarr, and Bazarr with their own databases and configurations, you get everything in a single interface backed by a single database.

- **Modern Stack** — SvelteKit 5 with TailwindCSS 4 delivers a fast, reactive interface that's a pleasure to use
- **Built-in Indexers** — YAML-based indexer engine with Torznab/Newznab support for external integrations
- **Smart Quality Scoring** — 100+ format attributes ensure you always get the best release for your preferences
- **Simple Setup** — Works out of the box with SQLite. No complex infrastructure required to get started

## Project Status

> **Early adopters welcome, but expect rough edges.** This project is evolving rapidly. Some features work well, others are experimental. Check the table below for current status, and see the [Roadmap](docs/ROADMAP.md) for what's planned.

| Feature            | Status       | Notes                                                |
| ------------------ | ------------ | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Content Discovery  | Stable       | TMDB integration, trending, search                   |
| Library Management | Stable       | File watching, scanning, TMDB matching               |
| Quality Scoring    | In Progress  | 4 built-in profiles work; custom profiles incomplete |
| Download Client    | Stable       | qBittorrent + SABnzbd                                |
| Indexers           | In Progress  | 4 public + 2 private indexers + Torznab/Newznab      |
| Subtitles          | Stable       | 6 providers, 80+ languages                           |
| Monitoring         | Experimental | 5 tasks coded, may have bugs                         |
| Live TV/IPTV       | Not Started  | Planned for future                                   |

## Features

<table>
<tr>
<td width="55%">
<img src="docs/images/discover.png" alt="Content Discovery" width="100%">
</td>
<td width="45%" valign="top">

**Content Discovery**<br>
Browse TMDB for movies and TV shows, view trending content, full metadata, trailers, and watch providers.

**Multi-Indexer Search**<br>
YAML-based indexers including 4 public (BitSearch, EZTV, Knaben, YTS) and 2 private trackers (OldToons.World, SceneTime), plus Torznab/Newznab templates for external integrations. Parallel search with automatic deduplication.

**Quality Scoring**<br>
4 built-in profiles (Best, Efficient, Micro, Streaming) that score resolution, audio codecs, HDR formats, and release groups. See [Quality Profiles](docs/QUALITY-PROFILES.md) for details.

</td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td width="45%" valign="top">

**Library Management**<br>
Real-time file watching, scheduled scans, auto-match to TMDB metadata, and media info extraction via ffprobe.

**Automated Downloads**<br>
qBittorrent integration with categories, priority handling for recent releases, auto-import on completion, and path mapping support.

**Monitoring**<br>
Automatic searches for missing content, quality upgrades, new episodes, and cutoff unmet items. See [Monitoring](docs/MONITORING.md) for configuration.

**Subtitles**<br>
6 providers, 80+ languages, auto-search on import, and language profiles. See [Subtitles](docs/SUBTITLES.md) for setup.

</td>
<td width="55%">
<img src="docs/images/library-movies.png" alt="Library Management" width="100%">
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

## Quick Start

```bash
# Clone and install
git clone https://github.com/MoldyTaint/cinephage.git
cd cinephage
npm install

# Build the application
npm run build

# Start production server (database auto-initializes on first run)
npm start
```

Open http://localhost:5173 and complete first-run setup:

1. Add your TMDB API key (free at [themoviedb.org](https://www.themoviedb.org/settings/api))
2. Configure qBittorrent connection
3. Set up root folders for movies and TV
4. Enable indexers

See [Configuration Guide](docs/CONFIGURATION.md) for detailed setup instructions.

## Requirements

**Required**

- Node.js 20+
- npm 10+
- qBittorrent with WebUI enabled
- TMDB API key (free)

**Optional**

- ffprobe for media info extraction (resolution, codecs, audio tracks)

## Tech Stack

**Frontend:** SvelteKit 5 · Svelte 5 · TailwindCSS 4 · DaisyUI 5

**Backend:** Node.js · SQLite · Drizzle ORM · Zod

**External:** TMDB · qBittorrent WebUI

## Documentation

**Getting Started**

- [Configuration](docs/CONFIGURATION.md) — Environment variables and first-run setup
- [Deployment](docs/DEPLOYMENT.md) — Production setup, systemd, reverse proxy
- [Troubleshooting](docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md) — Common issues and solutions

**Feature Guides**

- [Indexers](docs/INDEXERS.md) — Built-in indexers, Torznab, custom definitions
- [Quality Profiles](docs/QUALITY-PROFILES.md) — Scoring system and built-in profiles
- [Monitoring](docs/MONITORING.md) — Automated tasks and scheduling
- [Subtitles](docs/SUBTITLES.md) — Providers and language profiles

**Reference**

- [API Reference](docs/API.md) — REST API endpoints
- [Roadmap](docs/ROADMAP.md) — Planned features and known limitations

## Development

```bash
npm run dev          # Start dev server
npm run build        # Build for production
npm run check        # TypeScript checking
npm run lint         # ESLint + Prettier
npm run test         # Run tests
npm run db:studio    # Drizzle Studio
```

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for development guidelines.

## Support

- [Discord](https://discord.gg/scGCBTSWEt) — Community chat and support
- [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/MoldyTaint/cinephage/issues) — Bug reports and feature requests
- [Troubleshooting Guide](docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md) — Common issues and solutions
- [Contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md) — Development guidelines and workflow
- [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) — Community standards
- [Security Policy](SECURITY.md) — Vulnerability reporting
- [Changelog](CHANGELOG.md) — Version history

---

## Contributors

<a href="https://github.com/MoldyTaint/Cinephage/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=MoldyTaint/Cinephage" />
</a>

---

## Acknowledgments

Cinephage is an original implementation that stands on the shoulders of giants. The architecture draws inspiration from [Radarr](https://github.com/Radarr/Radarr) and [Sonarr](https://github.com/Sonarr/Sonarr) for download management, monitoring, and quality handling logic. The indexer system, including Cardigann format support and health tracking, is inspired by [Prowlarr](https://github.com/Prowlarr/Prowlarr). Subtitle provider architecture comes from [Bazarr](https://github.com/morpheus65535/bazarr), and modern UI patterns from [Overseerr](https://github.com/sct/overseerr).

Special thanks to [Dictionarry](https://github.com/Dictionarry-Hub/database) for the quality scoring database, [EncDec Endpoints](https://github.com/AzartX47/EncDecEndpoints) for streaming functionality, and [FlareSolverr](https://github.com/FlareSolverr/FlareSolverr) for Cloudflare handling approaches.

Uses [TMDB](https://www.themoviedb.org/) for metadata and [qBittorrent](https://www.qbittorrent.org/) for downloads. See [THIRD-PARTY-NOTICES.md](THIRD-PARTY-NOTICES.md) for complete attribution details.

## AI Disclosure

This project was built with and continues to use AI assistance. As a solo developer who's still learning, AI makes it possible to tackle a project of this scope — something that would otherwise require a team. It's a personal project, and AI is a tool that helps bridge the gap between ambition and experience. It's not perfect, but neither am I. We believe in being upfront about how this project is built.

## License

[GNU General Public License v3.0](LICENSE)

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

Commit message:

docs: comprehensive documentation overhaul and reorganization
- Create central navigation hub (docs/INDEX.md)
- Reorganize into logical subdirectories:
  - getting-started/: installation, configuration, first-steps
  - guides/: indexers, quality-profiles, subtitles, monitoring, library-management
  - deployment/: production setup guide
  - development/: architecture, contributing, monitoring-internals, testing
  - reference/: api, environment-variables
- Add architecture documentation with mermaid diagrams
- Create FAQ section
- Add first-steps walkthrough for new users
- Add library-management guide
- Split CONFIGURATION.md into focused documents
- Add navigation headers/footers throughout
- Update README.md to point to new structure
- Add pointer files at old internal doc locations

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="CinephageLogo.png" alt="Cinephage" width="200">
</p>

<h1 align="center">Cinephage</h1>

<p align="center">
  <strong>Self-hosted media management. Everything in one app.</strong>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPLv3-blue.svg" alt="License: GPL v3"></a>
  <a href="https://nodejs.org"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/node-%3E%3D20-brightgreen" alt="Node.js Version"></a>
  <a href="#"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/status-Alpha%20·%20Active%20Development-orange" alt="Status: Alpha - Active Development"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/MoldyTaint/Cinephage/issues"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/MoldyTaint/Cinephage" alt="GitHub Issues"></a>
  <a href="https://discord.gg/scGCBTSWEt"><img src="https://img.shields.io/discord/1449917989561303165?color=5865F2&logo=discord&logoColor=white&label=Discord" alt="Discord"></a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  Search torrents, grab downloads, organize your library, fetch subtitles — all in one app.<br>
  Think Radarr + Sonarr + Prowlarr + Bazarr, but built from scratch as a single application.
</p>

> [!CAUTION]
> **This project is under active development.** Features may be incomplete, APIs may change, and bugs are expected. This is a passion project by a solo developer — your patience and feedback are appreciated. Please report issues on GitHub, but understand that breaking changes may occur between updates.

<p align="center">
  <img src="docs/images/dashboard.png" alt="Cinephage Dashboard" width="800">
</p>

---

## Why Cinephage?

Cinephage consolidates four separate applications into one streamlined experience. Instead of juggling Radarr, Sonarr, Prowlarr, and Bazarr with their own databases and configurations, you get everything in a single interface backed by a single database.

- **Modern Stack** — SvelteKit 5 with TailwindCSS 4 delivers a fast, reactive interface that's a pleasure to use
- **Built-in Indexers** — YAML-based indexer engine with Torznab/Newznab support for external integrations
- **Smart Quality Scoring** — 100+ format attributes ensure you always get the best release for your preferences
- **Simple Setup** — Works out of the box with SQLite. No complex infrastructure required to get started

## Project Status

> **Early adopters welcome, but expect rough edges.** This project is evolving rapidly. Some features work well, others are experimental. Check the table below for current status, and see the [Roadmap](docs/ROADMAP.md) for what's planned.

| Feature            | Status       | Notes                                                |
| ------------------ | ------------ | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Content Discovery  | Stable       | TMDB integration, trending, search                   |
| Library Management | Stable       | File watching, scanning, TMDB matching               |
| Quality Scoring    | In Progress  | 4 built-in profiles work; custom profiles incomplete |
| Download Client    | Stable       | qBittorrent + SABnzbd                                |
| Indexers           | In Progress  | 4 public + 2 private indexers + Torznab/Newznab      |
| Subtitles          | Stable       | 6 providers, 80+ languages                           |
| Monitoring         | Experimental | 5 tasks coded, may have bugs                         |
| Live TV/IPTV       | Not Started  | Planned for future                                   |

## Features

<table>
<tr>
<td width="55%">
<img src="docs/images/discover.png" alt="Content Discovery" width="100%">
</td>
<td width="45%" valign="top">

**Content Discovery**<br>
Browse TMDB for movies and TV shows, view trending content, full metadata, trailers, and watch providers.

**Multi-Indexer Search**<br>
YAML-based indexers including 4 public (BitSearch, EZTV, Knaben, YTS) and 2 private trackers (OldToons.World, SceneTime), plus Torznab/Newznab templates for external integrations. Parallel search with automatic deduplication.

**Quality Scoring**<br>
4 built-in profiles (Best, Efficient, Micro, Streaming) that score resolution, audio codecs, HDR formats, and release groups. See [Quality Profiles](docs/QUALITY-PROFILES.md) for details.

</td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td width="45%" valign="top">

**Library Management**<br>
Real-time file watching, scheduled scans, auto-match to TMDB metadata, and media info extraction via ffprobe.

**Automated Downloads**<br>
qBittorrent integration with categories, priority handling for recent releases, auto-import on completion, and path mapping support.

**Monitoring**<br>
Automatic searches for missing content, quality upgrades, new episodes, and cutoff unmet items. See [Monitoring](docs/MONITORING.md) for configuration.

**Subtitles**<br>
6 providers, 80+ languages, auto-search on import, and language profiles. See [Subtitles](docs/SUBTITLES.md) for setup.

</td>
<td width="55%">
<img src="docs/images/library-movies.png" alt="Library Management" width="100%">
</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

## Quick Start

```bash
# Clone and install
git clone https://github.com/MoldyTaint/cinephage.git
cd cinephage
npm install

# Build the application
npm run build

# Start production server (database auto-initializes on first run)
npm start
```

Open http://localhost:5173 and complete first-run setup:

1. Add your TMDB API key (free at [themoviedb.org](https://www.themoviedb.org/settings/api))
2. Configure qBittorrent connection
3. Set up root folders for movies and TV
4. Enable indexers

See [Configuration Guide](docs/CONFIGURATION.md) for detailed setup instructions.

## Requirements

**Required**

- Node.js 20+
- npm 10+
- qBittorrent with WebUI enabled
- TMDB API key (free)

**Optional**

- ffprobe for media info extraction (resolution, codecs, audio tracks)

## Tech Stack

**Frontend:** SvelteKit 5 · Svelte 5 · TailwindCSS 4 · DaisyUI 5

**Backend:** Node.js · SQLite · Drizzle ORM · Zod

**External:** TMDB · qBittorrent WebUI

## Documentation

See the [Documentation Index](docs/INDEX.md) for the complete guide.

**Quick Links**

- [Installation](docs/getting-started/installation.md) - Get up and running
- [Configuration](docs/getting-started/configuration.md) - First-run setup
- [Troubleshooting](docs/troubleshooting.md) - Common issues and solutions

**Feature Guides**

- [Library Management](docs/guides/library-management.md) - Scanning, matching, organizing
- [Indexers](docs/guides/indexers.md) - Built-in indexers, Torznab, custom definitions
- [Quality Profiles](docs/guides/quality-profiles.md) - Scoring system and built-in profiles
- [Monitoring](docs/guides/monitoring.md) - Automated tasks and scheduling
- [Subtitles](docs/guides/subtitles.md) - Providers and language profiles

**Reference**

- [API Reference](docs/reference/api.md) - REST API endpoints
- [Roadmap](docs/roadmap.md) - Planned features and known limitations

## Development

```bash
npm run dev          # Start dev server
npm run build        # Build for production
npm run check        # TypeScript checking
npm run lint         # ESLint + Prettier
npm run test         # Run tests
npm run db:studio    # Drizzle Studio
```

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for development guidelines.

## Support

- [Discord](https://discord.gg/scGCBTSWEt) — Community chat and support
- [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/MoldyTaint/cinephage/issues) — Bug reports and feature requests
- [Troubleshooting Guide](docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md) — Common issues and solutions
- [Contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md) — Development guidelines and workflow
- [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) — Community standards
- [Security Policy](SECURITY.md) — Vulnerability reporting
- [Changelog](CHANGELOG.md) — Version history

---

## Contributors

<a href="https://github.com/MoldyTaint/Cinephage/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=MoldyTaint/Cinephage" />
</a>

---

## Acknowledgments

Cinephage is an original implementation that stands on the shoulders of giants. The architecture draws inspiration from [Radarr](https://github.com/Radarr/Radarr) and [Sonarr](https://github.com/Sonarr/Sonarr) for download management, monitoring, and quality handling logic. The indexer system, including Cardigann format support and health tracking, is inspired by [Prowlarr](https://github.com/Prowlarr/Prowlarr). Subtitle provider architecture comes from [Bazarr](https://github.com/morpheus65535/bazarr), and modern UI patterns from [Overseerr](https://github.com/sct/overseerr).

Special thanks to [Dictionarry](https://github.com/Dictionarry-Hub/database) for the quality scoring database, [EncDec Endpoints](https://github.com/AzartX47/EncDecEndpoints) for streaming functionality, and [FlareSolverr](https://github.com/FlareSolverr/FlareSolverr) for Cloudflare handling approaches.

Uses [TMDB](https://www.themoviedb.org/) for metadata and [qBittorrent](https://www.qbittorrent.org/) for downloads. See [THIRD-PARTY-NOTICES.md](THIRD-PARTY-NOTICES.md) for complete attribution details.

## AI Disclosure

This project was built with and continues to use AI assistance. As a solo developer who's still learning, AI makes it possible to tackle a project of this scope — something that would otherwise require a team. It's a personal project, and AI is a tool that helps bridge the gap between ambition and experience. It's not perfect, but neither am I. We believe in being upfront about how this project is built.

## License

[GNU General Public License v3.0](LICENSE)

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
