docs/operations/deployment.md, before:

# Deployment

Production deployment guide for Cinephage.

---

## Docker Deployment (Recommended)

Docker is the simplest way to deploy Cinephage in production.

### Quick Start

```bash
mkdir -p /opt/cinephage && cd /opt/cinephage
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MoldyTaint/cinephage/main/docker-compose.yaml
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MoldyTaint/cinephage/main/.env.example
cp .env.example .env
```

Edit `.env`:

```bash
MEDIA_PATH=/path/to/your/media
PUID=1000
PGID=1000
ORIGIN=https://cinephage.yourdomain.com
TZ=America/New_York
```

Start:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

### File Permissions

Match container user to your media library ownership:

```bash
# Find your media library owner
ls -la /path/to/your/media
# Note the UID:GID (e.g., 1000:1000)

# Set in .env
PUID=1000
PGID=1000

# Ensure data directories are accessible
mkdir -p ./data ./logs
chown -R 1000:1000 ./data ./logs
```

### Resource Limits

Add to docker-compose.yaml:

```yaml
deploy:
  resources:
    limits:
      cpus: '2'
      memory: 2G
```

---

## Manual Deployment

For installations without Docker.

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 20+
- npm 10+
- Linux server (Ubuntu 22.04+, Debian 12+)

### Installation

```bash
# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/MoldyTaint/cinephage.git /opt/cinephage
cd /opt/cinephage

# Install dependencies
npm ci --production=false

# Build application
npm run build

# Test
NODE_ENV=production node build/index.js
```

### Systemd Service

1. **Create system user**

```bash
sudo useradd -r -s /bin/false cinephage
sudo chown -R cinephage:cinephage /opt/cinephage
```

2. **Create directories**

```bash
sudo mkdir -p /opt/cinephage/data /opt/cinephage/logs
sudo chown cinephage:cinephage /opt/cinephage/data /opt/cinephage/logs
```

3. **Install service**

```bash
sudo cp /opt/cinephage/deploy/cinephage.service /etc/systemd/system/
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable cinephage
```

4. **Configure environment**

```bash
sudo cp /opt/cinephage/.env.example /opt/cinephage/.env
sudo chown cinephage:cinephage /opt/cinephage/.env
sudo chmod 600 /opt/cinephage/.env
sudo nano /opt/cinephage/.env
```

Set:

```
HOST=127.0.0.1
PORT=3000
ORIGIN=https://cinephage.yourdomain.com
```

5. **Start service**

```bash
sudo systemctl start cinephage
sudo systemctl status cinephage
```

### Service Commands

```bash
sudo systemctl start cinephage    # Start
sudo systemctl stop cinephage     # Stop
sudo systemctl restart cinephage  # Restart
sudo journalctl -u cinephage -f   # View logs
```

---

## Reverse Proxy

### nginx

Create `/etc/nginx/sites-available/cinephage`:

```nginx
server {
    listen 80;
    server_name cinephage.yourdomain.com;
    return 301 https://$server_name$request_uri;
}

server {
    listen 443 ssl http2;
    server_name cinephage.yourdomain.com;

    ssl_certificate /etc/letsencrypt/live/cinephage.yourdomain.com/fullchain.pem;
    ssl_certificate_key /etc/letsencrypt/live/cinephage.yourdomain.com/privkey.pem;
    ssl_protocols TLSv1.2 TLSv1.3;

    location / {
        proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:3000;
        proxy_http_version 1.1;
        proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
        proxy_set_header Connection 'upgrade';
        proxy_set_header Host $host;
        proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;
        proxy_cache_bypass $http_upgrade;
    }

    client_max_body_size 10M;
}
```

Enable:

```bash
sudo ln -s /etc/nginx/sites-available/cinephage /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/
sudo nginx -t
sudo systemctl reload nginx
```

### Caddy

Add to `/etc/caddy/Caddyfile`:

```
cinephage.yourdomain.com {
    reverse_proxy localhost:3000
}
```

Reload:

```bash
sudo systemctl reload caddy
```

Caddy automatically handles SSL via Let's Encrypt.

---

## SSL/TLS Setup

### Using Certbot (nginx)

```bash
# Install
sudo apt install certbot python3-certbot-nginx

# Obtain certificate
sudo certbot --nginx -d cinephage.yourdomain.com

# Verify auto-renewal
sudo certbot renew --dry-run
```

### Using Caddy

Caddy provisions SSL automatically. No configuration needed.

---

## Health Check

Test that Cinephage is running:

```bash
curl http://localhost:3000/health
```

---

## Monitoring

### Log Files

Logs are stored in the configured log directory (default: `logs/`).

### Systemd Logs

```bash
# Real-time logs
sudo journalctl -u cinephage -f

# Today's logs
sudo journalctl -u cinephage --since today

# Error logs only
sudo journalctl -u cinephage -p err
```

---

## Troubleshooting

### Service Won't Start

1. Check permissions: `ls -la /opt/cinephage/`
2. Check logs: `sudo journalctl -u cinephage -n 50`
3. Test manually: `sudo -u cinephage NODE_ENV=production node /opt/cinephage/build/index.js`

### Port in Use

```bash
sudo lsof -i :3000
```

Change port in `.env` if needed.

---

**See also:** [Installation](../getting-started/installation.md) | [Backup & Restore](backup-restore.md) | [Updating](updating.md)

Commit message:

feat: add Camoufox-based captcha solver for Cloudflare bypass
Replace the old Playwright-based browser solver with a new Camoufox-based
captcha solving system that handles Cloudflare and similar anti-bot protections
at the TLS/JA3 fingerprint level.

Key changes:
- Add new captcha solver service using Camoufox anti-detect browser
- Implement browser-based fetch for Cloudflare-protected sites (bypasses
  TLS fingerprinting that blocks Node.js fetch even with valid cookies)
- Add settings UI at /settings/integrations/captcha with status monitoring
- Add 'initializing' status state for better UX during startup
- Remove old browser solver that couldn't handle modern Cloudflare
- Update Docker configuration for Camoufox dependencies
- Add comprehensive test coverage for solver components

The new approach fetches pages directly through Camoufox when Cloudflare
is detected, rather than trying to extract and replay cookies (which fails
due to JA3/JA4 fingerprint mismatch between Node.js and Firefox).

docs/operations/deployment.md, after:

# Deployment

Production deployment guide for Cinephage.

---

## Docker Deployment (Recommended)

Docker is the simplest way to deploy Cinephage in production.

### Docker Image

Cinephage uses `node:22-slim` (Debian) as its base image. This provides compatibility with the Camoufox browser used for Cloudflare bypass.

> **Note for existing users:** If you're upgrading from an older version that used Alpine, see the [Migration Notes in CHANGELOG.md](../../CHANGELOG.md#migration-notes) for upgrade instructions.

### Quick Start

```bash
mkdir -p /opt/cinephage && cd /opt/cinephage
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MoldyTaint/cinephage/main/docker-compose.yaml
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MoldyTaint/cinephage/main/.env.example
cp .env.example .env
```

Edit `.env`:

```bash
MEDIA_PATH=/path/to/your/media
PUID=1000
PGID=1000
ORIGIN=https://cinephage.yourdomain.com
TZ=America/New_York
```

Start:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

### First Run

On first startup, the container will:

1. Initialize indexer definitions from bundled files
2. Download the Camoufox browser (~80MB) for Cloudflare bypass

This may take a minute or two. Check logs with `docker compose logs -f` to monitor progress.

### File Permissions

Match container user to your media library ownership:

```bash
# Find your media library owner
ls -la /path/to/your/media
# Note the UID:GID (e.g., 1000:1000)

# Set in .env
PUID=1000
PGID=1000

# Ensure data directories are accessible
mkdir -p ./data ./logs
chown -R 1000:1000 ./data ./logs
```

### Resource Limits

Add to docker-compose.yaml:

```yaml
deploy:
  resources:
    limits:
      cpus: '2'
      memory: 2G
```

---

## Manual Deployment

For installations without Docker.

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 20+
- npm 10+
- Linux server (Ubuntu 22.04+, Debian 12+)

### Installation

```bash
# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/MoldyTaint/cinephage.git /opt/cinephage
cd /opt/cinephage

# Install dependencies
npm ci --production=false

# Build application
npm run build

# Test
NODE_ENV=production node build/index.js
```

### Systemd Service

1. **Create system user**

```bash
sudo useradd -r -s /bin/false cinephage
sudo chown -R cinephage:cinephage /opt/cinephage
```

2. **Create directories**

```bash
sudo mkdir -p /opt/cinephage/data /opt/cinephage/logs
sudo chown cinephage:cinephage /opt/cinephage/data /opt/cinephage/logs
```

3. **Install service**

```bash
sudo cp /opt/cinephage/deploy/cinephage.service /etc/systemd/system/
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable cinephage
```

4. **Configure environment**

```bash
sudo cp /opt/cinephage/.env.example /opt/cinephage/.env
sudo chown cinephage:cinephage /opt/cinephage/.env
sudo chmod 600 /opt/cinephage/.env
sudo nano /opt/cinephage/.env
```

Set:

```
HOST=127.0.0.1
PORT=3000
ORIGIN=https://cinephage.yourdomain.com
```

5. **Start service**

```bash
sudo systemctl start cinephage
sudo systemctl status cinephage
```

### Service Commands

```bash
sudo systemctl start cinephage    # Start
sudo systemctl stop cinephage     # Stop
sudo systemctl restart cinephage  # Restart
sudo journalctl -u cinephage -f   # View logs
```

---

## Reverse Proxy

### nginx

Create `/etc/nginx/sites-available/cinephage`:

```nginx
server {
    listen 80;
    server_name cinephage.yourdomain.com;
    return 301 https://$server_name$request_uri;
}

server {
    listen 443 ssl http2;
    server_name cinephage.yourdomain.com;

    ssl_certificate /etc/letsencrypt/live/cinephage.yourdomain.com/fullchain.pem;
    ssl_certificate_key /etc/letsencrypt/live/cinephage.yourdomain.com/privkey.pem;
    ssl_protocols TLSv1.2 TLSv1.3;

    location / {
        proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:3000;
        proxy_http_version 1.1;
        proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
        proxy_set_header Connection 'upgrade';
        proxy_set_header Host $host;
        proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;
        proxy_cache_bypass $http_upgrade;
    }

    client_max_body_size 10M;
}
```

Enable:

```bash
sudo ln -s /etc/nginx/sites-available/cinephage /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/
sudo nginx -t
sudo systemctl reload nginx
```

### Caddy

Add to `/etc/caddy/Caddyfile`:

```
cinephage.yourdomain.com {
    reverse_proxy localhost:3000
}
```

Reload:

```bash
sudo systemctl reload caddy
```

Caddy automatically handles SSL via Let's Encrypt.

---

## SSL/TLS Setup

### Using Certbot (nginx)

```bash
# Install
sudo apt install certbot python3-certbot-nginx

# Obtain certificate
sudo certbot --nginx -d cinephage.yourdomain.com

# Verify auto-renewal
sudo certbot renew --dry-run
```

### Using Caddy

Caddy provisions SSL automatically. No configuration needed.

---

## Health Check

Test that Cinephage is running:

```bash
curl http://localhost:3000/health
```

---

## Monitoring

### Log Files

Logs are stored in the configured log directory (default: `logs/`).

### Systemd Logs

```bash
# Real-time logs
sudo journalctl -u cinephage -f

# Today's logs
sudo journalctl -u cinephage --since today

# Error logs only
sudo journalctl -u cinephage -p err
```

---

## Troubleshooting

### Service Won't Start

1. Check permissions: `ls -la /opt/cinephage/`
2. Check logs: `sudo journalctl -u cinephage -n 50`
3. Test manually: `sudo -u cinephage NODE_ENV=production node /opt/cinephage/build/index.js`

### Port in Use

```bash
sudo lsof -i :3000
```

Change port in `.env` if needed.

---

**See also:** [Installation](../getting-started/installation.md) | [Backup & Restore](backup-restore.md) | [Updating](updating.md)
