docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md, before:

# Troubleshooting Guide

This guide covers common issues and their solutions when using Cinephage.

## Table of Contents

- [Installation Issues](#installation-issues)
- [Database Issues](#database-issues)
- [Indexer Issues](#indexer-issues)
- [Download Client Issues](#download-client-issues)
- [Library Issues](#library-issues)
- [Subtitle Issues](#subtitle-issues)
- [Streaming Issues](#streaming-issues)
- [Performance Issues](#performance-issues)
- [Log Files](#log-files)
- [Debug Mode](#debug-mode)
- [Getting Help](#getting-help)
- [FAQ](#faq)

---

## Installation Issues

### npm install fails

**Symptoms**: Errors during `npm install`

**Solutions**:

1. Clear npm cache:

   ```bash
   npm cache clean --force
   rm -rf node_modules package-lock.json
   npm install
   ```

2. Check Node.js version:

   ```bash
   node --version  # Should be 20+
   ```

3. If using a different package manager, switch to npm:
   ```bash
   rm -rf node_modules yarn.lock pnpm-lock.yaml
   npm install
   ```

### Build fails

**Symptoms**: Errors during `npm run build`

**Solutions**:

1. Run type checking first:

   ```bash
   npm run check
   ```

2. Fix any TypeScript errors reported

3. Ensure all dependencies are installed:
   ```bash
   npm ci
   npm run build
   ```

### Application won't start

**Symptoms**: Error when running `npm run dev` or `npm start`

**Solutions**:

1. Check if port is in use:

   ```bash
   lsof -i :5173  # Development
   lsof -i :3000  # Production
   ```

2. Kill the conflicting process or change the port in `.env`

3. Verify database is initialized:
   ```bash
   npm run db:push
   ```

---

## Database Issues

### Database locked

**Symptoms**: "SQLITE_BUSY: database is locked"

**Solutions**:

1. Ensure only one instance is running:

   ```bash
   ps aux | grep node
   ```

2. Kill any orphaned processes:

   ```bash
   pkill -f "node build/index.js"
   ```

3. Check for pending transactions (restart the application)

### Database corruption

**Symptoms**: "SQLITE_CORRUPT" or unexpected query failures

**Solutions**:

1. Check database integrity:

   ```bash
   sqlite3 data/cinephage.db "PRAGMA integrity_check;"
   ```

2. If corrupted, restore from backup:

   ```bash
   cp backup/cinephage.db data/cinephage.db
   ```

3. If no backup, reset the database:
   ```bash
   rm data/cinephage.db
   npm run db:push
   ```
   Note: This will lose all data.

### Migration errors

**Symptoms**: Errors during `npm run db:push`

**Solutions**:

1. Check for schema conflicts:

   ```bash
   npm run db:generate
   ```

2. Review generated migrations in `drizzle/`

3. For major issues, backup data and reset:
   ```bash
   mv data/cinephage.db data/cinephage.db.old
   npm run db:push
   ```

---

## Indexer Issues

### Indexer not returning results

**Symptoms**: Searches return no results from a specific indexer

**Solutions**:

1. Test the indexer in Settings > Integrations > Indexers
2. Check if the indexer site is accessible in your browser
3. Verify the indexer is enabled
4. Check indexer health status (may be temporarily disabled due to errors)

### Rate limiting

**Symptoms**: "Rate limited" or "Too many requests" errors

**Solutions**:

1. Wait for the rate limit to reset (usually 1-5 minutes)
2. Reduce search frequency
3. Check rate limit settings for the indexer

### Cloudflare protection

**Symptoms**: "Cloudflare protection detected" errors

**Solutions**:

1. Some sites require browser-based solving
2. Try accessing the site manually first
3. The indexer may be temporarily unavailable
4. Consider using Torznab with Prowlarr/FlareSolverr

### Torznab connection failed

**Symptoms**: Cannot connect to Prowlarr/Jackett

**Solutions**:

1. Verify the URL is correct (include `/api` path if required)
2. Check the API key is valid
3. Ensure Prowlarr/Jackett is running and accessible
4. Test the URL in your browser:
   ```
   http://prowlarr:9696/api/v1/indexer?apikey=YOUR_KEY
   ```

### Indexer disabled

**Symptoms**: Indexer shows as disabled in the UI

**Solutions**:

1. Check the health status - may be auto-disabled due to repeated failures
2. Manually re-enable in Settings > Integrations > Indexers
3. Test the indexer to verify it's working
4. Check logs for specific error messages

---

## Download Client Issues

### Cannot connect to qBittorrent

**Symptoms**: "Connection refused" or authentication errors

**Solutions**:

1. Verify qBittorrent WebUI is enabled:
   - qBittorrent > Tools > Options > Web UI
   - Enable "Web User Interface"
   - Set username and password

2. Check connection details:
   - Host (localhost, IP, or hostname)
   - Port (default: 8080)
   - Username and password

3. Verify network access:

   ```bash
   curl http://localhost:8080/api/v2/app/version
   ```

4. Check firewall rules if connecting to remote qBittorrent

### Downloads not starting

**Symptoms**: Grab succeeds but download doesn't appear in qBittorrent

**Solutions**:

1. Check qBittorrent is running
2. Verify the torrent/magnet was sent:
   - Check Cinephage logs for grab confirmation
   - Check qBittorrent for the torrent

3. Verify category exists in qBittorrent

4. Check qBittorrent disk space and download path

### Downloads stuck

**Symptoms**: Downloads stay at 0% or show as stalled

**Solutions**:

1. Check qBittorrent peer connections
2. Verify torrent has seeders
3. Check network/VPN configuration
4. This is typically a qBittorrent/network issue, not Cinephage

### Import not working

**Symptoms**: Completed downloads aren't imported to library

**Solutions**:

1. Verify root folder is configured and accessible
2. Check file permissions on root folder
3. Ensure download path is accessible from Cinephage
4. For remote download clients, configure path mapping

---

## Library Issues

### Files not detected

**Symptoms**: Media files exist but don't appear in library

**Solutions**:

1. Trigger a manual scan: Settings > Library > Scan
2. Verify file extensions are supported (.mkv, .mp4, .avi, etc.)
3. Check root folder configuration
4. Ensure files are not in excluded paths

### Wrong match

**Symptoms**: File matched to incorrect movie/series

**Solutions**:

1. Use manual matching:
   - Library > Unmatched Files
   - Select the file
   - Search and select correct match

2. Rename the file to match expected pattern:
   - Movies: `Movie Name (Year)/Movie Name (Year).mkv`
   - TV: `Series Name/Season 01/Series Name - S01E01.mkv`

### Scan takes too long

**Symptoms**: Library scan is very slow

**Solutions**:

1. Check disk I/O:

   ```bash
   iostat -x 1
   ```

2. Reduce scan frequency in settings

3. Exclude large non-media directories

4. Check for network drive latency (use local paths if possible)

### Media info not extracted

**Symptoms**: Resolution, codec info missing

**Solutions**:

1. Install ffprobe:

   ```bash
   # Ubuntu/Debian
   sudo apt install ffmpeg

   # Verify
   ffprobe -version
   ```

2. Set FFPROBE_PATH in .env if not in system PATH

3. Check ffprobe can read the file:
   ```bash
   ffprobe /path/to/file.mkv
   ```

---

## Subtitle Issues

### No subtitles found

**Symptoms**: Subtitle search returns no results

**Solutions**:

1. Verify at least one provider is enabled
2. Check API keys are valid (OpenSubtitles, SubDL)
3. Try different providers - not all have subtitles for all content
4. Verify the media has correct TMDB match

### Wrong language

**Symptoms**: Downloaded subtitles are wrong language

**Solutions**:

1. Check language profile configuration
2. Verify language priority order
3. Delete incorrect subtitle and search again

### Provider rate limited

**Symptoms**: "Rate limited" errors from subtitle provider

**Solutions**:

1. Wait for rate limit to reset
2. Enable multiple providers for redundancy
3. Reduce automatic search frequency

### Subtitles not synced

**Symptoms**: Subtitles don't match video timing

**Solutions**:

1. Try a different subtitle from search results
2. Use external subtitle sync tools (SubSync, Subtitle Edit)
3. Search for a different release's subtitles

---

## Streaming Issues

### Stream won't play / Starts from end

**Symptoms**: Video player shows stream as complete or seeks to end immediately

**Solutions**:

1. This typically indicates the stream was incorrectly marked as "live" instead of VOD
2. Try refreshing the stream URL
3. Check if the streaming provider is working via Settings > Streaming
4. Try a different quality/server if available

### Stream buffering or failing

**Symptoms**: Playback stutters, fails to load, or shows errors

**Solutions**:

1. Check network connectivity
2. Try a lower quality stream
3. Some streaming providers have regional restrictions
4. Check provider health in Settings > Streaming

### STRM files not working

**Symptoms**: External player can't play .strm files

**Solutions**:

1. Ensure the player supports STRM format (Kodi, Jellyfin, etc.)
2. Verify Cinephage is accessible from the player's network
3. Check the stream URL is valid by opening it directly
4. Regenerate the STRM file from the media details page

---

## Performance Issues

### High memory usage

**Symptoms**: Application uses excessive RAM

**Solutions**:

1. Reduce worker counts in .env:

   ```
   WORKER_MAX_STREAMS=5
   WORKER_MAX_IMPORTS=3
   ```

2. Reduce log retention:

   ```
   WORKER_MAX_LOGS=500
   ```

3. Restart the application periodically

### Slow searches

**Symptoms**: Indexer searches take too long

**Solutions**:

1. Reduce number of enabled indexers
2. Check network latency to indexer sites
3. Some indexers are inherently slower than others

### High CPU usage

**Symptoms**: CPU spikes during operation

**Solutions**:

1. Reduce concurrent workers
2. Limit simultaneous searches
3. Check for runaway processes:
   ```bash
   top -p $(pgrep -f cinephage)
   ```

---

## Log Files

### Location

- Development: `logs/` in project directory
- Production: Configured via `LOG_DIR` environment variable
- Systemd: `journalctl -u cinephage`

### Log Levels

Logs include various levels:

- ERROR: Problems requiring attention
- WARN: Potential issues
- INFO: Normal operations
- DEBUG: Detailed debugging (if enabled)

### Reading Logs

```bash
# View recent logs
tail -100 logs/cinephage.log

# Follow logs in real-time
tail -f logs/cinephage.log

# Search for errors
grep -i error logs/cinephage.log

# Search for specific indexer
grep "1337x" logs/cinephage.log
```

### Log Rotation

Logs automatically rotate based on:

- `LOG_MAX_SIZE_MB`: Maximum file size (default: 10MB)
- `LOG_MAX_FILES`: Number of files to keep (default: 5)

---

## Debug Mode

For additional debugging information:

1. Check browser developer console (F12)
2. Review server logs in real-time
3. Use Drizzle Studio to inspect database:
   ```bash
   npm run db:studio
   ```

---

## Getting Help

### Before Asking for Help

1. Check this troubleshooting guide
2. Search existing GitHub issues
3. Review logs for error messages
4. Try to reproduce the issue

### Reporting Issues

When opening a GitHub issue, include:

1. **Description**: Clear explanation of the problem
2. **Steps to reproduce**: How to trigger the issue
3. **Expected behavior**: What should happen
4. **Actual behavior**: What actually happens
5. **Environment**:
   - Operating system
   - Node.js version
   - Cinephage version
6. **Logs**: Relevant log excerpts (redact sensitive info)

---

## FAQ

### How do I reset everything?

```bash
# Stop the application
# Backup your data first if needed
rm -rf data/cinephage.db
npm run db:push
# Restart the application
```

### How do I change the port?

Edit `.env`:

```
PORT=8080
```

Restart the application.

### Can I run multiple instances?

Not recommended - SQLite does not handle multiple writers well. Use a single instance.

### How do I backup my configuration?

Important files to backup:

- `data/cinephage.db` - All settings, library, queue
- `.env` - Environment configuration
- `data/indexers/definitions/` - Custom indexer definitions

### Where is data stored?

- Database: `data/cinephage.db`
- Logs: `logs/` (or configured directory)
- Indexer definitions: `data/indexers/definitions/`

### How do I update?

See [DEPLOYMENT.md](DEPLOYMENT.md#updating-cinephage) for update instructions.

Commit message:

docs: Document external ID matching in folder names

docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md, after:

# Troubleshooting Guide

This guide covers common issues and their solutions when using Cinephage.

## Table of Contents

- [Installation Issues](#installation-issues)
- [Database Issues](#database-issues)
- [Indexer Issues](#indexer-issues)
- [Download Client Issues](#download-client-issues)
- [Library Issues](#library-issues)
- [Subtitle Issues](#subtitle-issues)
- [Streaming Issues](#streaming-issues)
- [Performance Issues](#performance-issues)
- [Log Files](#log-files)
- [Debug Mode](#debug-mode)
- [Getting Help](#getting-help)
- [FAQ](#faq)

---

## Installation Issues

### npm install fails

**Symptoms**: Errors during `npm install`

**Solutions**:

1. Clear npm cache:

   ```bash
   npm cache clean --force
   rm -rf node_modules package-lock.json
   npm install
   ```

2. Check Node.js version:

   ```bash
   node --version  # Should be 20+
   ```

3. If using a different package manager, switch to npm:
   ```bash
   rm -rf node_modules yarn.lock pnpm-lock.yaml
   npm install
   ```

### Build fails

**Symptoms**: Errors during `npm run build`

**Solutions**:

1. Run type checking first:

   ```bash
   npm run check
   ```

2. Fix any TypeScript errors reported

3. Ensure all dependencies are installed:
   ```bash
   npm ci
   npm run build
   ```

### Application won't start

**Symptoms**: Error when running `npm run dev` or `npm start`

**Solutions**:

1. Check if port is in use:

   ```bash
   lsof -i :5173  # Development
   lsof -i :3000  # Production
   ```

2. Kill the conflicting process or change the port in `.env`

3. Verify database is initialized:
   ```bash
   npm run db:push
   ```

---

## Database Issues

### Database locked

**Symptoms**: "SQLITE_BUSY: database is locked"

**Solutions**:

1. Ensure only one instance is running:

   ```bash
   ps aux | grep node
   ```

2. Kill any orphaned processes:

   ```bash
   pkill -f "node build/index.js"
   ```

3. Check for pending transactions (restart the application)

### Database corruption

**Symptoms**: "SQLITE_CORRUPT" or unexpected query failures

**Solutions**:

1. Check database integrity:

   ```bash
   sqlite3 data/cinephage.db "PRAGMA integrity_check;"
   ```

2. If corrupted, restore from backup:

   ```bash
   cp backup/cinephage.db data/cinephage.db
   ```

3. If no backup, reset the database:
   ```bash
   rm data/cinephage.db
   npm run db:push
   ```
   Note: This will lose all data.

### Migration errors

**Symptoms**: Errors during `npm run db:push`

**Solutions**:

1. Check for schema conflicts:

   ```bash
   npm run db:generate
   ```

2. Review generated migrations in `drizzle/`

3. For major issues, backup data and reset:
   ```bash
   mv data/cinephage.db data/cinephage.db.old
   npm run db:push
   ```

---

## Indexer Issues

### Indexer not returning results

**Symptoms**: Searches return no results from a specific indexer

**Solutions**:

1. Test the indexer in Settings > Integrations > Indexers
2. Check if the indexer site is accessible in your browser
3. Verify the indexer is enabled
4. Check indexer health status (may be temporarily disabled due to errors)

### Rate limiting

**Symptoms**: "Rate limited" or "Too many requests" errors

**Solutions**:

1. Wait for the rate limit to reset (usually 1-5 minutes)
2. Reduce search frequency
3. Check rate limit settings for the indexer

### Cloudflare protection

**Symptoms**: "Cloudflare protection detected" errors

**Solutions**:

1. Some sites require browser-based solving
2. Try accessing the site manually first
3. The indexer may be temporarily unavailable
4. Consider using Torznab with Prowlarr/FlareSolverr

### Torznab connection failed

**Symptoms**: Cannot connect to Prowlarr/Jackett

**Solutions**:

1. Verify the URL is correct (include `/api` path if required)
2. Check the API key is valid
3. Ensure Prowlarr/Jackett is running and accessible
4. Test the URL in your browser:
   ```
   http://prowlarr:9696/api/v1/indexer?apikey=YOUR_KEY
   ```

### Indexer disabled

**Symptoms**: Indexer shows as disabled in the UI

**Solutions**:

1. Check the health status - may be auto-disabled due to repeated failures
2. Manually re-enable in Settings > Integrations > Indexers
3. Test the indexer to verify it's working
4. Check logs for specific error messages

---

## Download Client Issues

### Cannot connect to qBittorrent

**Symptoms**: "Connection refused" or authentication errors

**Solutions**:

1. Verify qBittorrent WebUI is enabled:
   - qBittorrent > Tools > Options > Web UI
   - Enable "Web User Interface"
   - Set username and password

2. Check connection details:
   - Host (localhost, IP, or hostname)
   - Port (default: 8080)
   - Username and password

3. Verify network access:

   ```bash
   curl http://localhost:8080/api/v2/app/version
   ```

4. Check firewall rules if connecting to remote qBittorrent

### Downloads not starting

**Symptoms**: Grab succeeds but download doesn't appear in qBittorrent

**Solutions**:

1. Check qBittorrent is running
2. Verify the torrent/magnet was sent:
   - Check Cinephage logs for grab confirmation
   - Check qBittorrent for the torrent

3. Verify category exists in qBittorrent

4. Check qBittorrent disk space and download path

### Downloads stuck

**Symptoms**: Downloads stay at 0% or show as stalled

**Solutions**:

1. Check qBittorrent peer connections
2. Verify torrent has seeders
3. Check network/VPN configuration
4. This is typically a qBittorrent/network issue, not Cinephage

### Import not working

**Symptoms**: Completed downloads aren't imported to library

**Solutions**:

1. Verify root folder is configured and accessible
2. Check file permissions on root folder
3. Ensure download path is accessible from Cinephage
4. For remote download clients, configure path mapping

---

## Library Issues

### Files not detected

**Symptoms**: Media files exist but don't appear in library

**Solutions**:

1. Trigger a manual scan: Settings > Library > Scan
2. Verify file extensions are supported (.mkv, .mp4, .avi, etc.)
3. Check root folder configuration
4. Ensure files are not in excluded paths

### Wrong match

**Symptoms**: File matched to incorrect movie/series

**Solutions**:

1. Use manual matching:
   - Library > Unmatched Files
   - Select the file
   - Search and select correct match

2. Rename the file to match expected pattern:
   - Movies: `Movie Name (Year)/Movie Name (Year).mkv`
   - TV: `Series Name/Season 01/Series Name - S01E01.mkv`

3. Use external IDs in folder names for guaranteed matching:
   - TV Shows (TVDB): `Breaking Bad {tvdb-81189}/Season 01/`
   - Movies (TMDB): `Inception {tmdb-27205}/Inception (2010).mkv`
   - IMDB: `The.Godfather.1972.tt0068646.1080p.BluRay.mkv`

   Supported formats: `{id-12345}`, `[id-12345]`, `.id-12345.`, `id-12345`

   This works automatically with libraries organized by Sonarr, Radarr, or Plex
   that include external IDs in folder names.

### Scan takes too long

**Symptoms**: Library scan is very slow

**Solutions**:

1. Check disk I/O:

   ```bash
   iostat -x 1
   ```

2. Reduce scan frequency in settings

3. Exclude large non-media directories

4. Check for network drive latency (use local paths if possible)

### Media info not extracted

**Symptoms**: Resolution, codec info missing

**Solutions**:

1. Install ffprobe:

   ```bash
   # Ubuntu/Debian
   sudo apt install ffmpeg

   # Verify
   ffprobe -version
   ```

2. Set FFPROBE_PATH in .env if not in system PATH

3. Check ffprobe can read the file:
   ```bash
   ffprobe /path/to/file.mkv
   ```

---

## Subtitle Issues

### No subtitles found

**Symptoms**: Subtitle search returns no results

**Solutions**:

1. Verify at least one provider is enabled
2. Check API keys are valid (OpenSubtitles, SubDL)
3. Try different providers - not all have subtitles for all content
4. Verify the media has correct TMDB match

### Wrong language

**Symptoms**: Downloaded subtitles are wrong language

**Solutions**:

1. Check language profile configuration
2. Verify language priority order
3. Delete incorrect subtitle and search again

### Provider rate limited

**Symptoms**: "Rate limited" errors from subtitle provider

**Solutions**:

1. Wait for rate limit to reset
2. Enable multiple providers for redundancy
3. Reduce automatic search frequency

### Subtitles not synced

**Symptoms**: Subtitles don't match video timing

**Solutions**:

1. Try a different subtitle from search results
2. Use external subtitle sync tools (SubSync, Subtitle Edit)
3. Search for a different release's subtitles

---

## Streaming Issues

### Stream won't play / Starts from end

**Symptoms**: Video player shows stream as complete or seeks to end immediately

**Solutions**:

1. This typically indicates the stream was incorrectly marked as "live" instead of VOD
2. Try refreshing the stream URL
3. Check if the streaming provider is working via Settings > Streaming
4. Try a different quality/server if available

### Stream buffering or failing

**Symptoms**: Playback stutters, fails to load, or shows errors

**Solutions**:

1. Check network connectivity
2. Try a lower quality stream
3. Some streaming providers have regional restrictions
4. Check provider health in Settings > Streaming

### STRM files not working

**Symptoms**: External player can't play .strm files

**Solutions**:

1. Ensure the player supports STRM format (Kodi, Jellyfin, etc.)
2. Verify Cinephage is accessible from the player's network
3. Check the stream URL is valid by opening it directly
4. Regenerate the STRM file from the media details page

---

## Performance Issues

### High memory usage

**Symptoms**: Application uses excessive RAM

**Solutions**:

1. Reduce worker counts in .env:

   ```
   WORKER_MAX_STREAMS=5
   WORKER_MAX_IMPORTS=3
   ```

2. Reduce log retention:

   ```
   WORKER_MAX_LOGS=500
   ```

3. Restart the application periodically

### Slow searches

**Symptoms**: Indexer searches take too long

**Solutions**:

1. Reduce number of enabled indexers
2. Check network latency to indexer sites
3. Some indexers are inherently slower than others

### High CPU usage

**Symptoms**: CPU spikes during operation

**Solutions**:

1. Reduce concurrent workers
2. Limit simultaneous searches
3. Check for runaway processes:
   ```bash
   top -p $(pgrep -f cinephage)
   ```

---

## Log Files

### Location

- Development: `logs/` in project directory
- Production: Configured via `LOG_DIR` environment variable
- Systemd: `journalctl -u cinephage`

### Log Levels

Logs include various levels:

- ERROR: Problems requiring attention
- WARN: Potential issues
- INFO: Normal operations
- DEBUG: Detailed debugging (if enabled)

### Reading Logs

```bash
# View recent logs
tail -100 logs/cinephage.log

# Follow logs in real-time
tail -f logs/cinephage.log

# Search for errors
grep -i error logs/cinephage.log

# Search for specific indexer
grep "1337x" logs/cinephage.log
```

### Log Rotation

Logs automatically rotate based on:

- `LOG_MAX_SIZE_MB`: Maximum file size (default: 10MB)
- `LOG_MAX_FILES`: Number of files to keep (default: 5)

---

## Debug Mode

For additional debugging information:

1. Check browser developer console (F12)
2. Review server logs in real-time
3. Use Drizzle Studio to inspect database:
   ```bash
   npm run db:studio
   ```

---

## Getting Help

### Before Asking for Help

1. Check this troubleshooting guide
2. Search existing GitHub issues
3. Review logs for error messages
4. Try to reproduce the issue

### Reporting Issues

When opening a GitHub issue, include:

1. **Description**: Clear explanation of the problem
2. **Steps to reproduce**: How to trigger the issue
3. **Expected behavior**: What should happen
4. **Actual behavior**: What actually happens
5. **Environment**:
   - Operating system
   - Node.js version
   - Cinephage version
6. **Logs**: Relevant log excerpts (redact sensitive info)

---

## FAQ

### How do I reset everything?

```bash
# Stop the application
# Backup your data first if needed
rm -rf data/cinephage.db
npm run db:push
# Restart the application
```

### How do I change the port?

Edit `.env`:

```
PORT=8080
```

Restart the application.

### Can I run multiple instances?

Not recommended - SQLite does not handle multiple writers well. Use a single instance.

### How do I backup my configuration?

Important files to backup:

- `data/cinephage.db` - All settings, library, queue
- `.env` - Environment configuration
- `data/indexers/definitions/` - Custom indexer definitions

### Where is data stored?

- Database: `data/cinephage.db`
- Logs: `logs/` (or configured directory)
- Indexer definitions: `data/indexers/definitions/`

### How do I update?

See [DEPLOYMENT.md](DEPLOYMENT.md#updating-cinephage) for update instructions.
