docs/configuration/settings-reference.md, before:

# Settings Reference

Complete reference for Cinephage configuration options.

---

## Environment Variables

Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and configure as needed. All variables have sensible defaults.

### Server Configuration

| Variable | Default   | Description                                                 |
| -------- | --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `HOST`   | `0.0.0.0` | Host address to bind                                        |
| `PORT`   | `3000`    | Port to listen on                                           |
| `ORIGIN` | -         | Trusted origin for CSRF (e.g., `http://192.168.1.100:3000`) |

**Notes:**

- Set `HOST` to `127.0.0.1` when behind a reverse proxy
- `ORIGIN` is required for external access

### Logging

| Variable          | Default  | Description                       |
| ----------------- | -------- | --------------------------------- |
| `LOG_DIR`         | `./logs` | Log file directory                |
| `LOG_MAX_SIZE_MB` | `10`     | Max log file size before rotation |
| `LOG_MAX_FILES`   | `5`      | Number of rotated logs to keep    |
| `LOG_TO_FILE`     | `true`   | Enable/disable file logging       |

### Media Info

| Variable       | Default     | Description            |
| -------------- | ----------- | ---------------------- |
| `FFPROBE_PATH` | System PATH | Path to ffprobe binary |

If ffprobe is not in your PATH, specify the full path.

### Worker Configuration

Controls concurrency for background tasks.

| Variable                | Default   | Description                      |
| ----------------------- | --------- | -------------------------------- |
| `WORKER_MAX_STREAMS`    | `10`      | Max concurrent stream resolution |
| `WORKER_MAX_IMPORTS`    | `5`       | Max concurrent file imports      |
| `WORKER_MAX_SCANS`      | `2`       | Max concurrent library scans     |
| `WORKER_MAX_MONITORING` | `5`       | Max concurrent monitoring tasks  |
| `WORKER_CLEANUP_MS`     | `1800000` | Worker cleanup interval (30 min) |
| `WORKER_MAX_LOGS`       | `1000`    | Max log entries per worker       |

**Tuning tips:**

- Increase `WORKER_MAX_IMPORTS` for faster bulk imports
- Decrease workers if system resources are limited
- Default values work well for most setups

### Graceful Shutdown

| Variable           | Default | Description                              |
| ------------------ | ------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `SHUTDOWN_TIMEOUT` | `30`    | Seconds to wait for connections to close |

---

## Database

The database is configured automatically:

| Property       | Value                   |
| -------------- | ----------------------- |
| **Location**   | `data/cinephage.db`     |
| **Type**       | SQLite (better-sqlite3) |
| **Migrations** | Automatic on startup    |

No environment variables are required for database configuration.

### Database Management

```bash
# Show database info
npm run db:info

# Reset database (delete and recreate)
npm run db:reset

# Optimize database
sqlite3 data/cinephage.db "VACUUM;"
```

---

## Docker Configuration

When using Docker, configure via `.env` or environment variables:

### Docker-Specific Variables

> [!NOTE]
> The variables listed below are helper variables for Docker and Docker Compose. They are not application configuration keys used directly by Cinephage. Docker and Docker Compose use them to control things like port mappings, volume paths, and container user IDs. You can optionally define them in a `.env` file for convenience. The variable names themselves are not required or hard-coded — they are provided as a documented convention to make Docker setups clearer and easier to manage.

<br>

| Variable               | Default | Description                 |
| ---------------------- | ------- | --------------------------- |
| `CINEPHAGE_PORT`       | `3000`  | External port mapping       |
| `CINEPHAGE_MEDIA_PATH` | -       | Path to media on host       |
| `CINEPHAGE_UID`        | `1000`  | User ID for file ownership  |
| `CINEPHAGE_GID`        | `1000`  | Group ID for file ownership |
| `CINEPHAGE_ORIGIN`     | -       | External URL for CSRF       |
| `CINEPHAGE_TZ`         | `UTC`   | Timezone                    |

### Example docker-compose.yaml

```yaml
services:
  cinephage:
    image: ghcr.io/moldytaint/cinephage:latest
    container_name: cinephage
    user: '${CINEPHAGE_UID:-1000}:${CINEPHAGE_GID:-1000}'
    ports:
      - '${CINEPHAGE_PORT:-3000}:3000'
    volumes:
      - ./data:/app/data
      - ./logs:/app/logs
      - ${CINEPHAGE_MEDIA_PATH}:/media
    environment:
      - ORIGIN=${CINEPHAGE_ORIGIN:-http://localhost:3000}
      - TZ=${CINEPHAGE_TZ:-UTC}
    restart: unless-stopped
```

---

## In-App Settings

Most settings are configured through the web UI at **Settings**.

### General Settings

| Setting                 | Description              |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------ |
| TMDB API Key            | Required for metadata    |
| Root Folders            | Media storage locations  |
| Default Quality Profile | Applied to new additions |

### Integration Settings

| Category           | Settings                                 |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------------- |
| Download Clients   | qBittorrent, SABnzbd, NZBGet connections |
| Indexers           | Search sources and credentials           |
| Subtitle Providers | Subtitle sources and API keys            |
| Notifications      | Media server integrations                |

### Task Settings

Configure monitoring task intervals and behavior.

### Naming Settings

Configure file and folder naming templates.

---

## File Locations

| File/Directory               | Purpose                         |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| `data/cinephage.db`          | SQLite database                 |
| `data/indexers/definitions/` | Custom YAML indexer definitions |
| `logs/`                      | Application logs                |
| `.env`                       | Environment configuration       |

---

## Ports

| Service           | Default Port |
| ----------------- | ------------ |
| Cinephage         | 3000         |
| qBittorrent WebUI | 8080         |
| SABnzbd           | 8080         |
| NZBGet            | 6789         |
| Jellyfin          | 8096         |
| Emby              | 8096         |

---

**See also:** [Installation](../getting-started/installation.md) | [Deployment](../operations/deployment.md) | [Troubleshooting](../support/troubleshooting.md)

Commit message:

fix(docs): standardize Docker env vars to CINEPHAGE_* prefix
Resolves confusion between CINEPHAGE_ORIGIN vs ORIGIN by:
- Updating docker-compose.yaml to use CINEPHAGE_* variables
- Updating .env.example with CINEPHAGE_* naming convention
- Clarifying settings-reference.md with IMPORTANT note explaining mapping
- Updating installation.md Configuration Options table
- Adding note to README.md docker run section
- Adding BREAKING change entry to CHANGELOG.md

The CINEPHAGE_* prefix is used in .env files for Docker Compose to avoid
conflicts with other services. Docker Compose maps these to the actual
application variables (e.g., CINEPHAGE_ORIGIN → ORIGIN).

When using docker run directly, pass unprefixed variables since there's
no .env file involved.

Closes #70

docs/configuration/settings-reference.md, after:

# Settings Reference

Complete reference for Cinephage configuration options.

---

## Environment Variables

Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and configure as needed. All variables have sensible defaults.

### Server Configuration

| Variable | Default   | Description                                                 |
| -------- | --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `HOST`   | `0.0.0.0` | Host address to bind                                        |
| `PORT`   | `3000`    | Port to listen on                                           |
| `ORIGIN` | -         | Trusted origin for CSRF (e.g., `http://192.168.1.100:3000`) |

**Notes:**

- Set `HOST` to `127.0.0.1` when behind a reverse proxy
- `ORIGIN` is required for external access

### Logging

| Variable          | Default  | Description                       |
| ----------------- | -------- | --------------------------------- |
| `LOG_DIR`         | `./logs` | Log file directory                |
| `LOG_MAX_SIZE_MB` | `10`     | Max log file size before rotation |
| `LOG_MAX_FILES`   | `5`      | Number of rotated logs to keep    |
| `LOG_TO_FILE`     | `true`   | Enable/disable file logging       |

### Media Info

| Variable       | Default     | Description            |
| -------------- | ----------- | ---------------------- |
| `FFPROBE_PATH` | System PATH | Path to ffprobe binary |

If ffprobe is not in your PATH, specify the full path.

### Worker Configuration

Controls concurrency for background tasks.

| Variable                | Default   | Description                      |
| ----------------------- | --------- | -------------------------------- |
| `WORKER_MAX_STREAMS`    | `10`      | Max concurrent stream resolution |
| `WORKER_MAX_IMPORTS`    | `5`       | Max concurrent file imports      |
| `WORKER_MAX_SCANS`      | `2`       | Max concurrent library scans     |
| `WORKER_MAX_MONITORING` | `5`       | Max concurrent monitoring tasks  |
| `WORKER_CLEANUP_MS`     | `1800000` | Worker cleanup interval (30 min) |
| `WORKER_MAX_LOGS`       | `1000`    | Max log entries per worker       |

**Tuning tips:**

- Increase `WORKER_MAX_IMPORTS` for faster bulk imports
- Decrease workers if system resources are limited
- Default values work well for most setups

### Graceful Shutdown

| Variable           | Default | Description                              |
| ------------------ | ------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `SHUTDOWN_TIMEOUT` | `30`    | Seconds to wait for connections to close |

---

## Database

The database is configured automatically:

| Property       | Value                   |
| -------------- | ----------------------- |
| **Location**   | `data/cinephage.db`     |
| **Type**       | SQLite (better-sqlite3) |
| **Migrations** | Automatic on startup    |

No environment variables are required for database configuration.

### Database Management

```bash
# Show database info
npm run db:info

# Reset database (delete and recreate)
npm run db:reset

# Optimize database
sqlite3 data/cinephage.db "VACUUM;"
```

---

## Docker Configuration

When using Docker, configure via `.env` or environment variables:

### Docker-Specific Variables

> [!IMPORTANT]
> When using Docker Compose with a `.env` file, use the `CINEPHAGE_*` prefixed variables listed below. Docker Compose maps these to the application variables that Cinephage actually consumes (e.g., `CINEPHAGE_ORIGIN` → `ORIGIN`). This prefix convention prevents variable name collisions when running multiple services.
>
> If using `docker run` directly, pass the unprefixed application variables (`ORIGIN`, `TZ`) since there's no `.env` file involved.

<br>

| Variable               | Default                 | Description                 |
| ---------------------- | ----------------------- | --------------------------- |
| `CINEPHAGE_MEDIA_PATH` | -                       | Path to media on host       |
| `CINEPHAGE_PORT`       | `3000`                  | External port mapping       |
| `CINEPHAGE_UID`        | `1000`                  | User ID for file ownership  |
| `CINEPHAGE_GID`        | `1000`                  | Group ID for file ownership |
| `CINEPHAGE_ORIGIN`     | `http://localhost:3000` | External URL for CSRF       |
| `CINEPHAGE_TZ`         | `UTC`                   | Timezone                    |

### Example docker-compose.yaml

```yaml
services:
  cinephage:
    image: ghcr.io/moldytaint/cinephage:latest
    container_name: cinephage
    user: '${CINEPHAGE_UID:-1000}:${CINEPHAGE_GID:-1000}'
    ports:
      - '${CINEPHAGE_PORT:-3000}:3000'
    volumes:
      - ./data:/app/data
      - ./logs:/app/logs
      - ${CINEPHAGE_MEDIA_PATH}:/media
    environment:
      - ORIGIN=${CINEPHAGE_ORIGIN:-http://localhost:3000}
      - TZ=${CINEPHAGE_TZ:-UTC}
    restart: unless-stopped
```

---

## In-App Settings

Most settings are configured through the web UI at **Settings**.

### General Settings

| Setting                 | Description              |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------ |
| TMDB API Key            | Required for metadata    |
| Root Folders            | Media storage locations  |
| Default Quality Profile | Applied to new additions |

### Integration Settings

| Category           | Settings                                 |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------------- |
| Download Clients   | qBittorrent, SABnzbd, NZBGet connections |
| Indexers           | Search sources and credentials           |
| Subtitle Providers | Subtitle sources and API keys            |
| Notifications      | Media server integrations                |

### Task Settings

Configure monitoring task intervals and behavior.

### Naming Settings

Configure file and folder naming templates.

---

## File Locations

| File/Directory               | Purpose                         |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| `data/cinephage.db`          | SQLite database                 |
| `data/indexers/definitions/` | Custom YAML indexer definitions |
| `logs/`                      | Application logs                |
| `.env`                       | Environment configuration       |

---

## Ports

| Service           | Default Port |
| ----------------- | ------------ |
| Cinephage         | 3000         |
| qBittorrent WebUI | 8080         |
| SABnzbd           | 8080         |
| NZBGet            | 6789         |
| Jellyfin          | 8096         |
| Emby              | 8096         |

---

**See also:** [Installation](../getting-started/installation.md) | [Deployment](../operations/deployment.md) | [Troubleshooting](../support/troubleshooting.md)
